KEP-4193: bound service account token improvements (#4141)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-auth/4193-tokenrequest-requester-info-enhancements/README.md

the JWT, which allows this verification to be rooted upon the same root of trust that the kubelet/requesting entity uses.

By embedding the identity of the Node the Pod is running on, we can cross-reference this information with an identity
passed along to the external service, thus removing the ability for a malicious actor to 'replay' a projected token
from another Node.

This will be implemented as an additional `node` entry in the private claims embedded into each JWT returned by the
TokenRequest API, in a similar manner to how the ServiceAccount, Pod or Secret is referenced.

Additionally, to provide a robust means of tracking token usage within the audit log we can embed a unique identifier for
each token which is can then also be recorded in future audit entries made by this token.

## Motivation

### Goals

* Embedding information about the Node that a pod is running on into signed JWTs.
* Make it easier to track the actions a single token has taken, and cross-reference that back to the origin of the token
  (via audit log inspection).
* Provide a means of checking whether a Pod's token is associated with the same Node as it was associated with when the

>   initial TokenRequest was made (via TokenReview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  initial TokenRequest was made (via an extra field that can be observed from the TokenReview API).
```

### Non-Goals

> * Embedding requester information beyond just the requesting node. This is discussed further in the alternatives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Embedding requester information. This is discussed further in the alternatives
```

  considered section, and a future KEP may revisit this.

> * Embedding information beyond the Node name and UID into the token. We aim to mimic what is done with the ref fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Embedding information beyond the immutable Node name and UID into the token. We aim to mimic what is done with the ref fields
```

  for secret, pod and serviceaccount (not introduce any additional properties).

> * Changing default behaviour of the TokenReview API to enforce the referenced Node object still exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Changing default behaviour of the SA authenticator to enforce the referenced Node object still exists.
```

## Proposal

### Embedding Pod's bound Node information in tokens

The kube-apiserver will be extended to automatically embed the `name` and `uid` of the *Node* a Pod is associated
with (via `spec.nodeName`) in generated tokens when a TokenRequest `create` call is serviced.

As the 'pod' is already available in this area of code, which contains the `nodeName`, we will just need to plumb
through a Getter for Node objects into the TokenRequest storage layer so the node's UID can be fetched, similar to
what is done for pod & secret objects.

### Extending TokenReview to allow cross-checking the embedded Node information with existing Node objects

> The TokenReview API will also be extended to check whether a JWT's embedded node information is still valid/current,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SA authenticator will also be extended to check whether a JWT's embedded node information is still valid/current,
```

and if not, will reject the review/indicate to the client that the token mismatches with the current state of Nodes.

This will involve first checking whether the Node object with the name given in the JWT still exists, and if it does,
validating whether the UID of that Node is equal to the UID embedded in the token.

This means administrators can **delete node objects to invalidate all JWTs issued that embed that Node's info**.

> To avoid unexpected breaking changes in behaviour, this behaviour will not only be protected by the feature flag whilst

Reviewer: Might want to move this up because until you get down to the end, the above sounds like a breaking change.

> the feature is graduating to GA, but will also be gated behind an additional kube-apiserver flag which defaults to 'off'.

Reviewer: Would also be good to document that setting this to `true` matches the use of the `pod-garbage-collector-controller`, just with a quicker invalidation.

Reviewer: What will the new CLI flag be called?

> ### Including a UUID ([JTI](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.7)) on each issued JWT

Reviewer: Need a section about generic node ref support.

Reviewer 2: added above, right?

can be later used to trace the requests that a specific issued token has made to the apiserver via the audit log.

This will require changing the JWT issuing code to actually generate this UUID, as well as extending the code around the
audit log to have it record this information into audit entries.

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

Alice is building an identity issuance system that relies on verifying projected service account tokens to ensure that
a pod exists, and is associated with a particular service account.

Alice wants to prevent a malicious actor being able to replay this token from another host, so that she can be certain
that the user requesting the identity document is also the same user that initially requested the token (as the identity
used to request the token requires validations rooted in the cryptographic root of trust on the host, e.g. a TPM).

This not only allows us to prevent replay attacks, but allows us to issue identity documents that we can 'root' in the
node's own root of trust, the TPM (as the external service can now clearly validate that the user requesting the identity

> not only has a copy of that token, but also that it was the original entity to request that token).

Reviewer: We do not know who requested the token:

```suggestion
not only has a copy of that token, but also that it is the node that the pod is scheduled on).
```

* Tests to ensure `ID`/`JTI` field is always set to a random UUID.
* Tests to ensure the info embedded on a JWT is extracted from the token and into the ServiceAccountInfo when
  a token is validated.
* Tests to ensure the information is NOT embedded or extracted when the feature gate is disabled.

<!--
In principle every added code should have complete unit test coverage, so providing
the exact set of tests will not bring additional value.
However, if complete unit test coverage is not possible, explain the reason of it
together with explanation why this is acceptable.
-->

<!--
Additionally, for Alpha try to enumerate the core package you will be touching
to implement this enhancement and provide the current unit coverage for those
in the form of:
- <package>: <date> - <current test coverage>
The data can be easily read from:
https://testgrid.k8s.io/sig-testing-canaries#ci-kubernetes-coverage-unit

This can inform certain test coverage improvements that we want to do before
extending the production code to implement this enhancement.
-->

##### Integration tests

* Test that calls the TokenRequest API as a node user, to create a new token, and asserts that the current requesting

>   node's information is correctly embedded into the resulting JWT.

Reviewer: This is not valid for this design.

<!--
Integration tests are contained in k8s.io/kubernetes/test/integration.
Integration tests allow control of the configuration parameters used to start the binaries under test.
This is different from e2e tests which do not allow configuration of parameters.
Doing this allows testing non-default options and multiple different and potentially conflicting command line options.
-->

<!--
This question should be filled when targeting a release.
For Alpha, describe what tests will be added to ensure proper quality of the enhancement.

For Beta and GA, add links to added tests together with links to k8s-triage for those tests:
https://storage.googleapis.com/k8s-triage/index.html
-->

- <test>: <link to test coverage>

##### e2e tests

> * Extend existing TokenRequest e2e tests to check for embedded requester node name & UID + generated JTI is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Extend existing TokenRequest e2e tests to check for embedded scheduled node name & UID + generated JTI is present.
```

- <test>: <link to test coverage>

### Graduation Criteria

#### Alpha

- JTI feature implemented behind a feature flag `ServiceAccountTokenJTI`.
- Node name/uid feature implemented behind a feature flag `ServiceAccountTokenNodeInfo`.
- TokenReview extended validation gated behind `ServiceAccountTokenNodeInfo` feature flag, as well as an extra
  kube-apiserver flag (name TBD, `--service-account-token-validate-node-info`?).
- Initial e2e tests completed and enabled

#### Beta

> - TBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Decide what the default of the new flag should be
- Decide if using an audit annotation is the correct approach
- Docs around the SA JWT schema (this does not exist today)
```

software that consumes this information.

## Production Readiness Review Questionnaire

<!--

Production readiness reviews are intended to ensure that features merging into
Kubernetes are observable, scalable and supportable; can be safely operated in
production environments, and can be disabled or rolled back in the event they
cause increased failures in production. See more in the PRR KEP at
https://git.k8s.io/enhancements/keps/sig-architecture/1194-prod-readiness.

The production readiness review questionnaire must be completed and approved
for the KEP to move to `implementable` status and be included in the release.

In some cases, the questions below should also have answers in `kep.yaml`. This
is to enable automation to verify the presence of the review, and to reduce review
burden and latency.

The KEP must have a approver from the
[`prod-readiness-approvers`](http://git.k8s.io/enhancements/OWNERS_ALIASES)
team. Please reach out on the
[#prod-readiness](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPNHUMN74) channel if
you need any help or guidance.
-->

### Feature Enablement and Rollback

> * `ServiceAccountTokenJTI` feature flag will toggle including JTI information in tokens, as well as recording JTIs in the audit log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `ServiceAccountTokenJTI` feature flag will toggle including JTI information in tokens, as well as recording JTIs in the audit log / the SA user info.
```

information embedded however.

If these fields are deemed to be problematic for other systems interpreting these tokens, users will need to re-issue
these tokens before presenting them elsewhere.

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

Future tokens will once again include this information/no adverse effects.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

Yes (as noted above in the test plan)

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

Rolling this out will be done by enabling the feature flag on all control plane hosts.
This should not have any issues/affect during upgrades.
Rollback is done by removing/disabling the feature gate.

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

If somehow the tokens issued during the time where the feature was enabled were to be rejected, these tokens would
need to be re-requested.

This isn't so much a failure of the rollback, rather it would be a bug in the actual feature (hence feature gating).

During a skew where hosts have different enablement, users would get tokens with varying content if they made multiple

> requests. These tokens will all be usable against all apiservers though, so there won't be issues due to skew.

Reviewer: We should probably manually test and confirm that a new token with node ref and JTI has no negative impact on a v1.28 API server (and that it still works).

###### What specific metrics should inform a rollback?

* `authentication_attempts`
* `authorization_attempts_total`

> * `serviceaccount_valid_tokens_total`

Reviewer: I think we need metrics that increment when any of the new features are used.

Author: Would this just be a metric within the feature-gated area of code that increments each time that block is entered? Would we remove these metrics once the feature is graduated?

Reviewer: These would new, permanent metrics that indicate that the new code path is being used.  For example, see the [CSR duration](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/bf1fa0c6691bb3bc6c5c03f900c53ed609e580a4/pkg/registry/certificates/certificates/storage/metrics.go#L43-L67) metrics - these still exist even though the feature is GA and still let an admin determine if that feature is in-use in their cluster.  So you would have metrics that indicate when a node ref is requested, when a node ref is implicitly added, when a node ref is verified, etc.  It will probably take some time to think through the exact specifics of the metrics and what labels those metrics should have (especially to avoid cardinality issues).  You do not have to nail is down perfectly here as we can always updates the KEP with what we actually implement.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

No.

### Monitoring Requirements

N/A

<!--
This section must be completed when targeting beta to a release.

For GA, this section is required: approvers should be able to confirm the
previous answers based on experience in the field.
-->

###### How can an operator determine if the feature is in use by workloads?

For the node info part, using the TokenRequest API and inspecting the contents of the issued JWTs for a token bound to a Pod.

> For JTIs, using the TokenRequest API and then inspecting the contents of the issued JWT for any ServiceAccount token.

Reviewer: You should also be able to see this just by looking at the metrics of the cluster.

Author: Which metrics/what dyou mean here? Inspecting the metrics around successful/failed authentication attempts?

      running user workloads?
    - Diagnostics: What are the useful log messages and their required logging
      levels that could help debug the issue?
      Not required until feature graduated to beta.
    - Testing: Are there any tests for failure mode? If not, describe why.
-->

###### What steps should be taken if SLOs are not being met to determine the problem?

## Implementation History

<!--
Major milestones in the lifecycle of a KEP should be tracked in this section.
Major milestones might include:
- the `Summary` and `Motivation` sections being merged, signaling SIG acceptance
- the `Proposal` section being merged, signaling agreement on a proposed design
- the date implementation started
- the first Kubernetes release where an initial version of the KEP was available
- the version of Kubernetes where the KEP graduated to general availability
- when the KEP was retired or superseded
-->

## Drawbacks

* There are some unknowns around whether embedding the `username` of a user is deemed a privacy concern based on
  some providers considering usernames as PII. A survey of large k8s providers is expected prior to this feature

>   graduating beyond alpha.

Reviewer: Is this still relevant?

generated tokens when a TokenRequest `create` call is is serviced.

This information is already readily available in the JWT construction code, so wouldn't require significant refactoring
work to allow.

To avoid creating potentially infinitely long lists of user information/chains, we will not persist information beyond
the user that requested this specific token (e.g. we won't embed information going all the way up to a 'root' user).

To build the full chain, a user will need to utilise the JTI recorded in the audit log to cross-reference apiserver
requests back to the initial TokenRequest.

### Including a UUID ([JTI](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.7)) on each issued JWT

When a TokenRequest is being issued/fulfilled, we will modify the issuing code to also generate and embed a UUID which
can be later used to trace the requests that a specific issued token has made to the apiserver via the audit log.

This will require changing the JWT issuing code to actually generate this UUID, as well as extending the code around the
audit log to have it record this information into audit entries.

> 

Reviewer 3: I don't see a DeleteFunc on the informer used by node controller and generally don't see pod deletion happening in that file, so I assume it's some other controller (maybe replicaset/daemonset/statefulset controllers watch for this?): https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/fc786dcd1d2efcc241e0e2392086934f2806555d/staging/src/k8s.io/cloud-provider/controllers/node/node_controller.go#L148-L151

> 

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/pkg/controller/podgc/gc_controller.go#L227-L228

runs every 20 seconds

> 

Reviewer 3: This looks like it: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/fc786dcd1d2efcc241e0e2392086934f2806555d/pkg/controller/podgc/gc_controller.go#L228

> 

Reviewer 3: And seems like it should delete Pods after 40 seconds: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/fc786dcd1d2efcc241e0e2392086934f2806555d/pkg/controller/podgc/gc_controller.go#L52, that should be easy enough for someone to test.

> 

Reviewer 2: resolving, added above:

```
### Embedding Pod's bound Node information in tokens
...
### Allowing ServiceAccount tokens to be bound to a Node object
...
### Extending TokenReview to allow cross-checking the embedded Node information with existing Node objects
...
```

through a Getter for Node objects into the TokenRequest storage layer so the node's UID can be fetched, similar to
what is done for pod & secret objects.

### Allowing ServiceAccount tokens to be bound to a Node object

Similar to how a token can be bound to a Pod or Secret object, we will also extend the TokenRequest API to allow
binding directly to Node objects (without needing to bind to a Pod as well).

This allows users to obtain a token that is tied specifically to the *Node* objects lifecycle, i.e. when the Node
object is deleted, the token will be invalidated.

### Extending TokenReview to allow cross-checking the embedded Node information with existing Node objects

The SA authenticator will also be extended to check whether a JWT's embedded node information is still valid/current,
and if not, will reject the review/indicate to the client that the token mismatches with the current state of Nodes.

To avoid unexpected breaking changes in behaviour, this behaviour will not only be protected by the feature flag whilst
the feature is graduating to GA, but will also be gated behind an additional kube-apiserver flag `--service-account-validate-node-info`

> which defaults to 'off'.

Reviewer 2: Clarify that this opt-in is limited to tokens bound to pods (pod info specified in the tokenrequest) which also got node name/uid claims added by the API server.

Tokens bound directly to nodes (node info specified in the tokenrequest) will always validate node name/uid.

through a Getter for Node objects into the TokenRequest storage layer so the node's UID can be fetched, similar to
what is done for pod & secret objects.

### Allowing ServiceAccount tokens to be bound to a Node object

Similar to how a token can be bound to a Pod or Secret object, we will also extend the TokenRequest API to allow
binding directly to Node objects (without needing to bind to a Pod as well).

This allows users to obtain a token that is tied specifically to the *Node* objects lifecycle, i.e. when the Node
object is deleted, the token will be invalidated.

### Extending TokenReview to allow cross-checking the embedded Node information with existing Node objects

The SA authenticator will also be extended to check whether a JWT's embedded node information is still valid/current,
and if not, will reject the review/indicate to the client that the token mismatches with the current state of Nodes.

For tokens bound to Pod objects, to avoid unexpected breaking changes in behaviour, this will not only be protected by
the feature flag whilst the feature is graduating to GA, but will also be gated behind an additional kube-apiserver flag

> `--service-account-validate-node-info` which defaults to 'off'. This avoids changing the previous behaviour for

Reviewer 4: This is only a concern until all supported kube-apiservers know about node bindings, right?  After that, an old server will properly reject when nodes are gone and new servers will always have to accept tokens without node bindings.

be immediately invalidated rather than waiting until [the 40s grace period](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/fc786dcd1d2efcc241e0e2392086934f2806555d/pkg/controller/podgc/gc_controller.go#L50-L52) passes.

This means administrators can **delete node objects to invalidate all JWTs issued that embed that Node's info**.

### Including a UUID ([JTI](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.7)) on each issued JWT

When a TokenRequest is being issued/fulfilled, we will modify the issuing code to also generate and embed a UUID which
can be later used to trace the requests that a specific issued token has made to the apiserver via the audit log.

This will require changing the JWT issuing code to actually generate this UUID, as well as extending the code around the
audit log to have it record this information into audit entries.

### User Stories (Optional)

#### Story 1

Alice is building an identity issuance system that relies on verifying projected service account tokens to ensure that
a pod exists, and is associated with a particular service account.

> Alice wants to prevent a malicious actor being able to replay this token from another host, so that she can be certain

Reviewer 4: This assumes the actual origination IP is exposed to the consumer (not proxy) and no promiscuous links exist, right?  Otherwise IP spoofing would function as expected and via a proxy all origins looks the same.

Author: No - the other actor would also need access to the host's certificate in this particular use-case/setup. Origin IP is not used to validate the request. The use of the host's own identity _plus_ a pod that with a claim that references that same node is how we cross-reference and avoid the replay attack.

Perhaps my wording is wrong here, as you are right in saying that if someone had *both* of these documents, they *would* be able to replay the credential.

that the user requesting the identity document is also the same user that initially requested the token (as the identity
used to request the token requires validations rooted in the cryptographic root of trust on the host, e.g. a TPM).

> This not only allows us to prevent replay attacks, but allows us to issue identity documents that we can 'root' in the

Reviewer 4: This isn't so obvious to me.  It seems like anyone holding a client certificate that looks like the node in question would be able to request JWTs.

Author: Yep that is correct - perhaps I should clarify that point... what we are piggy backing on is the process through which a host acquires that certificate. That may be via the CSR API, or it could be some external system that performs its own cross-reference checks. This is the process/attestation that we want to anchor our trust to here :)

Reviewer 4: I think it's worth clarification.  There is no guarantee of a single CSR issuer.  Impersonation could do similar things.  As could front-proxy certificate assertion.  The kube-apiserver authentication stack isn't as restrictive as the TPM module is and there are many ways to assert identity.

not only has a copy of that token, but also that it is the node that the pod is scheduled on).

#### Story 2

Bob is an administrator of a cluster and has noticed some strange request patterns from an unknown service account.

Bob would like to understand who initially issued/authorised this token to be issued. To do so, Bob looks up the JTI
of the token making the suspicious requests by looking inside the audit log entries for these suspect requests.

This JTI is then used for a further audit log lookup - namely, looking for the TokenRequest `create` call which contains
the audit annotation with key `authentication.kubernetes.io/token-identifier` and the value set to that of the suspect token.

This allows Bob to determine precisely who made the original request for this token, and (depending on the 'chain'
above this token), allows Bob to recursively perform this lookup to find all involved parties that led to this token
being issued.

### Notes/Constraints/Caveats (Optional)

### Risks and Mitigations

* Adding additional cross-referencing validation checks into the TokenReview API may break some user workflows that

>   involve deleting Node objects and restarting kubelet's to allow them to be recreated. As a result, the TokenReview

Reviewer 4: ah, this answers my question from above and I remember the live discussion.

Yes. Future tokens will then not embed this information. Any existing issued tokens **will** still have this
information embedded however.

If these fields are deemed to be problematic for other systems interpreting these tokens, users will need to re-issue
these tokens before presenting them elsewhere.

###### What happens if we reenable the feature if it was previously rolled back?

Future tokens will once again include this information/no adverse effects.

###### Are there any tests for feature enablement/disablement?

Yes (as noted above in the test plan)

### Rollout, Upgrade and Rollback Planning

Rolling this out will be done by enabling the feature flag on all control plane hosts.
This should not have any issues/affect during upgrades.
Rollback is done by removing/disabling the feature gate.

###### How can a rollout or rollback fail? Can it impact already running workloads?

If somehow the tokens issued during the time where the feature was enabled were to be rejected, these tokens would
need to be re-requested.

This isn't so much a failure of the rollback, rather it would be a bug in the actual feature (hence feature gating).

> During a skew where hosts have different enablement, users would get tokens with varying content if they made multiple

Reviewer 4: how would an old server with the featuregate off verify a token bound to a node object?

Reviewer 2: Good catch.

Options I can think of:
1. Server without feature gate enabled ignores node-bound aspect, just validates the token signature and service account existence
    * This makes the tokens *less* secure when the feature gate is disabled... I don't like this option
2. Server without feature gate rejects node-bound tokens.
    * This would mean node-bound tokens shouldn't be requested and relied on until upgrade to enabled-state was complete and rollback safe.
3. Server without feature gate does not allow creation of node-bound tokens but continues to accept/validate them if presented. Requires running the node informer.
    * Since ~all deployments I'm aware of run the node informer anyway as part of the node authorizer, this doesn't seem bad to me.
    * 3a: If we wanted to give very fine-grained control over this, we could gate issuance and acceptance of explicitly node-scoped tokens separately, graduate acceptance in one release, then issuance in the next.

I'd lean toward 3 or 3a.

Reviewer 4: I'm fine with 3a. I think it's better than being less secure.

Author: 👍 I will add an extra feature gate to the proposal, and also note that the rollout plan will require an additional release for graduation.

Author: Updated to reflect 3a - please take a look & let me know if we need any changes, we *may* want to create a 4th feature gate to control whether we enable the explicitly node scope token *verification* behaviour too, unless we are happy to not have this behaviour feature gated.

###### Were upgrade and rollback tested? Was the upgrade->downgrade->upgrade path tested?

<!--
Describe manual testing that was done and the outcomes.
Longer term, we may want to require automated upgrade/rollback tests, but we
are missing a bunch of machinery and tooling and can't do that now.
-->

###### Is the rollout accompanied by any deprecations and/or removals of features, APIs, fields of API types, flags, etc.?

No.

### Monitoring Requirements

New metrics:

* `serviceaccount_authentication_pod_node_ref_verified_total` - new metric that is incremeneted when a token bound to a Pod has its Node reference verified
* `serviceaccount_authentication_bound_object_verified_total{bound_object_kind="Node"}` - new metric that is incremeneted when a token bound to a Node has its reference verified
* `serviceaccount_bound_tokens_issued_pod_with_node_tokens_total` - new metric that is incremented when a node ref is embedded into a bound Pod token (aka implicitly added)
* `serviceaccount_bound_tokens_issued_total{bound_object_kind="Node"}` - new metric that is incremented whenever a bound token is issued that references a Node (explicitly added)

> * `serviceaccount_bound_tokens_issued_with_identifier_total` - new metric that is incremented whenever a token that contains an identifier/JTI is issued

Reviewer 2: I'm fuzzy on how these would be used to determine if the feature was working properly (rather than to just check if the feature was enabled, which can be done with the feature enablement metric). I think @jeremyrickard asked a similar question in the PRR section.

I'm happy to defer specifics of the metrics to the implementation review, make sure the details here get updated with the result of that, and ensure this is finalized before beta.

Reviewer 4: Similar.  We'd be looking for some kind of label indicating success or failure of verification perhaps?

<!--
Ideally, this should be a metric. Operations against the Kubernetes API (e.g.,
checking if there are objects with field X set) may be a last resort. Avoid
logs or events for this purpose.
-->

###### How can someone using this feature know that it is working for their instance?

For the node info part, using the TokenRequest API and inspecting the contents of the issued JWTs for a token bound to a Pod.
For JTIs, using the TokenRequest API and then inspecting the contents of the issued JWT for any ServiceAccount token.

For the validation/verification, the user can use the SelfSubjectAccessReview API to check whether the token is still valid.
To do so, they'd need to obtain a token that is bound to a Pod, delete the corresponding Node object that the Pod is scheduled
on, and observe that the token is no longer valid via the SelfSubjectAccessReview API.

A similar process could be used for tokens bound to Node objects directly.

###### What are the reasonable SLOs (Service Level Objectives) for the enhancement?

N/A

###### What are the SLIs (Service Level Indicators) an operator can use to determine the health of the service?

> N/A

Reviewer 5: Since this isa new alpha things, this is OK, but you've identified a number of metrics in the previous section.  Can a cluster operator use any of the new metrics to determine the health of the new feature or help identify when it needs to be rolled back?

Reviewer 4: Good observation.  As you note, not required yet, but will be important for beta.

- [ ] Metrics
  - Metric name:
  - [Optional] Aggregation method:
  - Components exposing the metric:
- [ ] Other (treat as last resort)
  - Details:

###### Are there any missing metrics that would be useful to have to improve observability of this feature?

No

<!--
Describe the metrics themselves and the reasons why they weren't added (e.g., cost,
implementation difficulties, etc.).
-->

### Dependencies

None

###### Does this feature depend on any specific services running in the cluster?

No

### Scalability

N/A

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in any new API calls?

No

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in introducing new API types?

No

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in any new calls to the cloud provider?

No

###### Will enabling / using this feature result in increasing size or count of the existing API objects?

Additional audit log annotation keys, as well as extending the JWT claims we embed into service account tokens.

The maximum size of a UUID is X bytes.
The maximum size of a Node object's name is Y bytes.

> The maximum size of a Node object's UID is Z bytes.

Reviewer 2: were these supposed to be filled in? The generated UUID for JTI and node default to 36 bytes, and a node names have a max length of 253 bytes.

  for secret, pod and serviceaccount (not introduce any additional properties).

## Proposal

### Embedding requesting node information in tokens

The kube-apiserver will be extended/modified to automatically embed the `name` and `uid` of the requesting *Node* into
generated tokens when a TokenRequest `create` call is is serviced.

As the 'pod' is already available in this area of code, which contains the `nodeName`, we will just need to plumb
through a Getter for Node objects into the TokenRequest storage layer so the node's UID can be fetched, similar to
what is done for pod & secret objects.

### Extending TokenReview to allow cross-checking the embedded Node information with existing Node objects

The TokenReview API will also be extended to check whether a JWT's embedded node information is still valid/current,
and if not, will reject the review/indicate to the client that the token mismatches with the current state of Nodes.

This will involve first checking whether the node object with the name given in the JWT still exists, and if it does,
validating whether the UID of that node is equal to the UID embedded in the token.

> This means administrators can **delete node objects to invalidate all JWTs issued that embed that node's info**.

Reviewer 6: (nit)
```suggestion
This means administrators can **delete Node objects to invalidate all JWTs issued that embed that node's info**.
```

Alice wants to prevent a malicious actor being able to replay this token from another host, so that she can be certain
that the user requesting the identity document is also the same user that initially requested the token (as the identity
used to request the token requires validations rooted in the cryptographic root of trust on the host, e.g. a TPM).

This not only allows us to prevent replay attacks, but allows us to issue identity documents that we can 'root' in the
node's own root of trust, the TPM (as the external service can now clearly validate that the user requesting the identity
not only has a copy of that token, but also that it was the original entity to request that token).

#### Story 2

Bob is an administrator of a cluster and has noticed some strange request patterns from an unknown service account.

Bob would like to understand who initially issued/authorised this token to be issued. To do so, Bob looks up the JTI
of the token making the suspicious requests by looking inside the audit log entries for these suspect requests.

This JTI is then used for a further audit log lookup - namely, looking for the TokenRequest `create` call which contains

> the audit annotation with key `authentication.kubernetes.io/jti` and the value set to that of the suspect token.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
the audit annotation with key `authentication.kubernetes.io/token-identifier` and the value set to that of the suspect token.
```

I'd make the annotation key implementation agnostic. JTI is what we're doing here, but maybe next week someone invents a gRPC Web Token :wink: or something and we actually have GTI.

Author: I like this suggestion.. have switched this to `token-identifier`, although speaking with @enj we have also noted we need to reach out to @tallclair as we may be better off making this a first class field rather than an annotation anyway: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/118571#issuecomment-1662698887

Reviewer 2: one possible step further... would we want to track credential identifiers from non-token auth methods as well, like an x509 client certificate (either issuer+serial or subject key identifier)? if so, something even more generic like credential-id might be a good idea

Reviewer 6: X.509 is different enough from a token mechanism that I'd (soft) recommend a different set of annotations / fields.
We might record a hash of the entire certificate in one entry, the serial number from the cert in another, and the issuer's distinguished name in a third.
